I was born in 1923 in Great Bend, Kansas, which got its name because the town was built at the spot where the Arkansas River bends in the middle of the state. I grew up among the industrious descendents of the western settlers of the American Great Plains. My father ran a small electric company that had customers scattered across the rural western part of Kansas. While I was in high school, a huge ice storm knocked down most of the poles that carried the telephone and electric power lines. My father worked with amateur radio operators to communicate with areas where customers had lost their power and phone service. My dad's goal was to do whatever it took to run his business and to help people, but I thought that amateur radio was a fascinating subject. It sparked my interest in electronics, and that's when I decided that this field was something I wanted to pursue. I also was a fan of broadcast radio. In the 1940s, I especially enjoyed listening to Big Band music. Even today, there's a radio station in Dallas that plays this kind of music, and with a little luck, I don't have to listen to much else. After high school, I studied electrical engineering at the University of Illinois. Most of my classes were in electrical power, but because of my childhood interest in electronics, I also took some vacuum tube engineering physics classes.
I graduated in 1947, just one year before Bell Labs announced the invention of the transistor. It meant that my vacuum?tube classes were about to be come obsolete, but it offered great opportunities to put my physics studies to good use.
In line with the interests that occupied my thoughts in Great Bend, I hired on with an electronics manufacturer in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, that made parts for radios, televisions and hearing aids.
While in Milwaukee, I took evening classes at the University of Wisconsin towards a master's degree in electrical engineering. Working and going to school at the same time presents some challenges, but it can be done and its well worth the effort.
In 1958, my wife and I moved to Dallas, Texas, when I took job with Texas Instruments. TI was the only company that agreed to let me work on electronic component miniaturization more or less full time, and it turned out to be a great fit.
After proving that integrated circuits were possible, I headed teams that built the first military systems and the first computer incorporating integrated circuits. I also worked on teams that invented the handheld calculator and the thermal printer, which was used in portable data terminals.
In 1970 I took a leave of absence from TI to do some independent work. While on leave, one of the things I worked on was how to apply silicon technology to help generate electrical power from sunlight.
From 1978 to 1984, I spent much of my time as a Distinguished Professor of Electrical Engineering at Texas A&M University. The "distinguished" part is in the eye of the beholder, and I really didn't do much "professing." However, I did have a rewarding time doing research and working with students and faculty on various projects.